---
date: 2019-06-02
target-entities: Kraken
entity-types:
  - Custodian
  - Exchange
attack-types: Market Manipulation
title: "Kraken Bitcoin Flash Crash to $100 CAD: Potential Hacker Activity"
loss: 10470000
---

## Summary

On June 2, 2019, Kraken, a respected cryptocurrency exchange, experienced a flash crash on its Bitcoin-to-Canadian Dollar (BTC/CAD) trading pair. In a matter of seconds, the price of BTC dropped from $11,200 CAD to just over $101 CAD, a decline of over 99%. The incident resulted in losses of approximately $10,470,000 USD, equivalent to 1,200 BTC. Analysts suggest that this event was executed by a hacker attempting to siphon funds from Kraken. The attacker is alleged to have executed the flash crash using a specific method. First, they managed to gain access to an account that held 1,200 BTC, but they were unable to withdraw the funds due to two-factor authentication. To maneuver around this, they set up their own buy orders, capping them at $100 CAD, on the BTC/CAD trading pair, which was not frequently traded. Then they sold off the entire 1,200 BTC into this illiquid market. As a result of this move, they effectively transferred the funds to themselves. Through this strategy, the attacker managed to become the legitimate owner of the 1,200 BTC, securing them at a price considerably below the prevailing market rates.

## Attackers

The identity of the attacker remains unknown.

## Losses

Kraken experienced losses of 1,200 BTC, worth around $10,470,000 USD at the time of the incident.

## Timeline

- **June 2, 2019:** The BTC/CAD pair on Kraken [experienced a flash crash](https://blockonomi.com/bitcoin-flash-crash-kraken/), dropping by over 99% in a matter of seconds.
- **June 2, 2019, 03:02 PM:** An independent crypto expert [suggests details about the hacker's actions](https://twitter.com/Beetcoin/status/1135199936654565376).

## Security Failure Causes

**Market Manipulation:** The attacker took advantage of the illiquid BTC/CAD pair on Kraken, which had a limited number of buy orders above $5,000 CAD. By placing low buy orders and dumping the compromised account's BTC, the attacker was able to manipulate the market and transfer the funds to their own account.