---
date: 2016-06-17
custodians: The DAO, Ethereum
categories: Contract Flaw
title: DAO falls prey to smart contract exploit, resulting in $60 million Ether theft
---

## Summary

On June 17, 2016, an exploit in the DAO (Decentralized Autonomous Organization), a venture capital fund on the Ethereum blockchain, allowed an attacker to drain approximately $60 million worth of Ether into a separate entity referred to as the "Child DAO."

## Attackers 

The perpetrator behind the DAO exploit remains undisclosed. However, they manipulated a recursive calling vulnerability in the DAO's smart contract, which permitted repeated Ether withdrawals before the smart contract could update the balance.

## Losses

The DAO exploit led to an estimated $60 million in Ether being transferred to the Child DAO controlled by the attacker.

## Timeline

- **June 17, 2016:** The DAO experiences an exploit, leading to the extraction of around a third of its total funds.
- **July 20, 2016:** Ethereum implements a hard fork in an attempt to recover the stolen funds, inadvertently leading to a split in the Ethereum community and the creation of Ethereum Classic (ETC).

## Security Failure Causes

The main contributing factor to the DAO exploit was a flaw in the smart contract's code concerning fund withdrawals. This flaw, referred to as a "recursive calling" vulnerability, allowed the attacker to repeatedly trigger the withdrawal function before the smart contract could register the balance change. 

The aftermath of the attack led to a controversial decision within the Ethereum community to enact a hard fork to recover the stolen funds, leading to a split and the creation of Ethereum Classic.

## Additional Details 

- The DAO represented a significant milestone in the realm of decentralized governance and investment, raising over $150 million through a crowdfunding campaign in 2016.
- The decision to hard fork Ethereum as a response to the DAO exploit ignited a significant debate around the principles of blockchain immutability and the ethical implications of altering a blockchain's history to rectify theft.
- This exploit served as a wake-up call for the blockchain community, leading to a more rigorous approach to smart contract creation and auditing, with a heightened focus on security.
