---
date: 2016-08-23
target-entities: Krypton
entity-types: Blockchain
attack-types: 51%
title: "Krypton (KR) suffers a 51% attack in August 2016"
loss: 3000
---

## Summary

Krypton, an Ethereum-based blockchain, experienced a 51% attack in August 2016. The attackers were able to control more than half of the network's hash rate, enabling them to manipulate the blockchain and double-spend KR tokens.

## Attackers

The identity of the attackers remains unknown.

## Losses

It was reported that the attackers managed to [steal approximately 21,465 KR tokens, which had a value of about $3,000](https://bitcoinist.net/attack-krypton-dry-run-ethereum/) at the time of the attack.

## Timeline

- **August, 2016:** Attacker(s) sent more than 21 thousand Krypton (KR) tokens to the Bittrex crypto exchange, sold them for bitcoin
- **August, 2016:** Attacker(s) bought additional hashing power from online rental service Nicehash, and joined the 4miners mining pool
- **August, 2016:** Attacker(s) simultaneously launched a distributed denial-of-service attack on the Supernova mining pool and Krypton’s statistics servers.
- **August, 2016:** Attacker(s) used the majority hashing power to roll back the transactions.

## Security Failure Causes

- **Lack of Decentralization:** Similar to other 51% attacks, the Krypton network suffered from a lack of decentralization in its mining power. This allowed the attackers to easily gain control over the network.
- **Low Network Hash Rate:** At the time, Krypton was a relatively small cryptocurrency, with a low network hash rate, making it an easy target for attackers.
