---
date: 2019-03-24
categories: "Custodian"
title: "DragonEx Hacked for $7 Million"
---

## Summary

On March 24, 2019, [DragonEx, a Singapore-based cryptocurrency exchange, was hacked for $7 million](https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2019/03/26/singapore-based-crypto-exchange-dragonex-has-been-hacked/). The attacker gained access to one of the exchange's hot wallets, which are used to store user funds that are available for withdrawal.

## Attackers

Attackers associated with [Lazarus Group](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/culture/lazarus-hacker-group-continues-target-crypto-using-faked-trading-software) gained access through sophisticated phishing attack. [More about Lazarus](https://go.chainalysis.com/rs/503-FAP-074/images/2020-Crypto-Crime-Report.pdf)

ETH 
- DragonEx Hacker wallet: [0xa7f72Bf63EDeCa25636F0B13Ec5135296ca2eBb2](https://etherscan.io/address/0xa7f72Bf63EDeCa25636F0B13Ec5135296ca2eBb2)

## Losses

The attackers managed to steal a total of 4.3 million USDT, 2.2 million BNB, and 300,000 USDC from the DragonEx hot wallet. 

## Timeline

- **March 24, 2022:** The DragonEx hack began. The attacker gained access to one of the exchange's hot wallets and began withdrawing funds.
- **March 25, 2022:** [DragonEx became aware of the hack and suspended withdrawals.](https://t.me/DragonEx_EN/50126)
- **March 26, 2022:** DragonEx announced that the hack had resulted in a loss of $7 million.

## Security Failure Causes

- **Lack of two-factor authentication:** The DragonEx team has not officially confirmed whether or not the hot wallet was protected by two-factor authentication. However, it is known that the exchange did not require two-factor authentication for withdrawals, which would have made it easier for the attacker to gain access to the wallet.
- **Insufficient System Security Measures:** The presence of the malware suggests that there may have been insufficient security measures in place to detect and prevent such attacks. This could include inadequate network monitoring, lack of intrusion detection systems, or insufficient measures to protect against advanced malware threats. Lack of Employee Awareness and Training: Human error or lack of awareness among employees could have played a role in the security failure. Insufficient training or education on recognizing and responding to phishing attempts, social engineering, or other attack vectors may have made the organization more susceptible to the initial malware infiltration.
