---
date: 2019-02-20
target-entities:
- Coinbin
- Youbit
- Yapizon
entity-types:
- Exchange
- Custodian
attack-types:
- Internal Embezzlement
- Private Key Leak
title: "Embezzlement Leads to $26 Million Loss and Bankruptcy of Coinbin Exchange"
---

## Summary

South Korean cryptocurrency exchange Coinbin, which took over the previously hacked exchange Youbit, filed for bankruptcy on February 20, 2019, following embezzlement by an employee. The employee, previously the CEO of Youbit and responsible for cryptocurrency balances at Coinbin, was accused of neglecting his duties and embezzling funds. Specifically, he allegedly appropriated the key to an Ethereum wallet and claimed the cryptographic key had been lost.

- **Previous Controversies**

Youbit was previously hacked twice: in April and December 2017, losing around 4,000 Bitcoin and $35 million, respectively. Following the December attack, Youbit filed for bankruptcy but later controversially re-emerged as Coinbin. Youbit's parent company, Yapian Corp, took out an insurance policy just 20 days before filing for bankruptcy, leading to allegations of insurance fraud.

## Attackers

- The internal attacker was an employee of Coinbin, previously the CEO of Youbit. Additional details about his identity are not provided. 
- External attacks on Youbit were likely initiated by North Korean hackers, according to research by FireEye.

## Losses

- **Yapizon Hack: April 2017:** $4.7 million worth of 3,816 Bitcoin
- **Youbit Hack: December 2017:** $35 million
- **Coinbin Embezzlement, February 2019:** $26 million worth of 29.3 billion won

## Timeline

- **April 22, 2017:** Youbit, formerly known as Yapizon at the time, [has been hacked by the wallet compromise](https://news.bitcoin.com/hacked-korean-bitcoin-exchange-yapizon-offers-ious/), with 3,816 Bitcoin stolen
- **September 2017:** FireEye, a security research firm, [published a research blog](https://web.archive.org/web/20170912002752/https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2017/09/north-korea-interested-in-bitcoin.html) that says the Yapizon hack was likely initiated by North Korean hackers.
- **December 1, 2017:** Yapian Corp [took insurance from DB Insurance](https://thecurrencyanalytics.com/altcoins/hacked-south-korean-exchange-youbit-re-emerges-lawsuits-519.php)
- **December 18, 2017, 07:35 PM UTC:** [Youbit hacked](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-bitcoin-exchange-southkorea/south-korean-cryptocurrency-exchange-to-file-for-bankruptcy-after-hacking-idUSKBN1ED0NJ), losing the equivalent of $35 million USD and filing for bankruptcy.
- **March 28, 2018:** Yapian's press release revealed that DN Insurance, denied the payout of $2.8 million, citing:
> Youbit violated its obligation to notify (obligation to notify before contracting) and decided not to pay insurance money.
> 
> [Source](https://www-yna-co-kr.translate.goog/view/AKR20180328120300002?_x_tr_sl=auto&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=en)
- **March 21, 2018:** Rights, information, and assets from Youbit transferred to Coinbin.
- **February 20, 2019:** Coinbin's CEO, Park Chan-kyu [announces bankruptcy](https://finance.yahoo.com/news/embezzlement-26-million-loss-bankrupts-190157032.html) following embezzlement by an employee.

## Security Failure Causes
**Employee Embezzlement:** A cause of the loss was embezzlement by an employee who had formerly served as CEO of Youbit and had access to the necessary cryptographic keys.
**Wallet Compromise:** The loss was also tied to previous incidents of wallet compromises, notably the attacks on Youbit.
**Phishing Attack:** The Yapizon hack is most likely the result of phishing, a common attack method used by North Korean hackers, particularly aimed at South Korean cryptocurrency targets.