---
date: 2021-01-17
custodians: Crypto.com
categories: Custodian
title: Crypto.com Confirms $34M Hack
---

## Summary

According to the announcement, an attacker found a way to approve transactions without the two-factor authentication control being inputted by account holders. This resulted in 483 Crypto.com users losing funds from their accounts. The exchange reaffirmed comments made by the firm’s CEO, Kris Marszalek, that any accounts found to be impacted were fully restored, resulting in no loss of funds for users.

## Attackers

The identity of the attackers remained unknown.

## Losses

Attacker drained 4,836.26 ETH, 443.93 BTC, and approximately $66,200 of other currencies from its users’ accounts. The stolen funds total approximately $34.4 million.

## Timeline

On Monday, Jan. 17, at approximately 00:46 UTC, the exchange’s risk monitoring systems detected unauthorized activity on a small number of user accounts.

## Security Failure Causes

While Crypto.com has confirmed the reports of a hack from several analysts and blockchain security firms, the exchange did not explain how the hacker gained access to users’ accounts and bypassed their two-factor authentication.
The undisclosed security breach that led to the Crypto.com hack comes less than three months after the exchange completed a Service Organization Control 2 Audit. The audit was conducted by consulting firm Deloitte and affirmed that Crypto.com’s information security practices, policies, procedures, and operations meet sufficient SOC2 standards. 

## Lessons Learned

In response to the incident, Crypto.com has added an additional layer of security to withdrawals. Users will now need to wait 24 hours after registering a new withdrawal address before transferring funds to it. The exchange also says it has engaged with third-party security firms to perform additional security checks.
Also Crypto.com has launched a new Worldwide Account Protection Program. The program promises to restore funds up to $250,000 for qualified users in the event of fraud or theft. To qualify, users must meet a series of criteria, such as having two-factor authentication enabled on all transactions and filing a report with local police.
