---
date: 2022-11-11
custodians: FTX
categories: Custodian
title: "FTX Collapse worsens after a $600 million hack"
---

## Summary

In early November 2022, more than $600 million was siphoned from FTX's crypto wallets by unknown hackers. Soon after, FTX stated in its official Telegram channel that it had been compromised, instructing users not to install any new upgrades and to delete all FTX apps. According to Coindesk.com, many FTX users reported $0 left in their FTX.com and FTX US wallets. Various Ethereum tokens, as well as Solana and Binance Smart Chain tokens, were removed from FTX's official wallets and moved to decentralized exchanges such as 1inch. The hack affected both the international version of FTX.com and the US version of FTX US. The "transfers" occurred on the same day that FTX formally filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after losing allegedly billions of dollars in user payments. The transfers have not been officially acknowledged by FTX leadership.

## Attackers

The attackers remain unknown. However, the cryptocurrency community speculates that the sophisticated and coordinated actions of the attackers may point to FTX employees.

## Losses

Blockchain analytics company Elliptic [estimates](https://hub.elliptic.co/analysis/477-million-in-unauthorized-transfers-from-ftx/) that around $477 million worth of cryptocurrency had been stolen from FTX. The stolen money has been converted into different digital coins, but the bulk of it — more than $280 million — was changed into the cryptocurrency ether, according to public blockchain records of the account linked to the hackers. Tom Robinson, co-founder of Elliptic, told CNBC that the hackers were converting the ether into a crypto product called RenBTC which is then being converted into bitcoin via a bridge. This allows one crypto to be converted into another without going through a centralized exchange.

## Timeline

- **November 11, 2022, 11:52 PM UTC:** An admin for the exchange’s Telegram page published a message in which he acknowledged the fact of hacking and warned users about the danger of using FTX apps claiming that they were malware.
- **November 12, 2022, around 04:00 AM UTC:** FTX's login portal was unavailable (though the site was still online) giving users a 503 error when they attempted to log in. A 503 error happens when the server is unavailable, commonly because it's down for maintenance or unavailable for access.
- **November 12, 2022:** FTX General Counsel Ryne Miller tweeted that the crypto exchange was making every effort to secure all assets, wherever located. He also claimed that the company was routing remaining funds into cold storage.
- **November 14, 2022:** Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao announced an Industry recovery fund to reduce the cascading negative effects of FTX that helps projects with a solid foundation and structure but experiencing a liquidity crisis to outlive.
- **November 17, 2022:** The Securities Commission of the Bahamas explained that it had directed the transfer of all digital assets of FTX Digital Markets to a digital wallet controlled by the Commission, for safekeeping.
- **November 20, 2022:** Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao announced an Industry recovery fund to reduce the cascading negative effects of FTX that helps projects with a solid foundation and structure but experiencing a liquidity crisis to outlive.

## Security Failure Causes

Both FTX and FTX US appeared to be affected by what is speculated to be the result of a Trojan, with users of both exchanges reporting balances of $0 in their accounts. [Reports](https://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/ftx-hacked-1bn-drained-from-ftx-and-ftx-us-accounts-so-far/) are emerging of SMS messages and emails being sent by FTX to customers to log into the app and website, which are infected with a trojan and enabled the hack.
