---
date: 2022-01-17
custodians: Crypto.com
categories: Custodian
title: "Crypto.com Confirms $34M Hack"
---

## Summary

According to the announcement, an attacker found a way to approve transactions without the two-factor authentication control being inputted by account holders. This resulted in 483 Crypto.com users losing funds from their accounts. The exchange reaffirmed comments made by the firm’s CEO, Kris Marszalek, that any accounts found to be impacted were fully restored, resulting in no loss of funds for users.

## Attackers

The identity of the attackers remained unknown.

## Losses

Attacker drained 4,836.26 ETH, 443.93 BTC and approximately US$66,200 in other cryptocurrencies from its users’ accounts. The stolen funds total approximately $34.4 million.

## Timeline

- **On Monday, [Jan. 17](https://twitter.com/cryptocom/status/1482936866001207296)**, at 04:44 UTC, the company's twitter account announced unauthorized activity on a small number of user accounts. All withdrawals were paused for investigation.
- **Infrastructure was up and running again in under 14 hours** according to Crypto.com CEO Kris Marszalek [tweet](https://twitter.com/kris/status/1483277350683185155).
- **All users [asked](https://twitter.com/cryptocom/status/1483050866894868484) to sign back** into their accounts and reset 2FA

## Security Failure Causes

While Crypto.com has confirmed the reports of a hack from several analysts and blockchain security firms, the exchange did not explain how the hackers compromised two-factor authentication and left users accounts were protected only by a password.
The undisclosed security breach that led to the Crypto.com hack comes less than three months after the exchange completed a Service Organization Control 2 Audit. The audit was conducted by consulting firm Deloitte and affirmed that Crypto.com’s information security practices, policies, procedures, and operations meet sufficient SOC2 standards. 
In response to the incident, Crypto.com has added an additional layer of security to withdrawals. Users will now need to wait 24 hours after registering a new withdrawal address before transferring funds to it. The exchange also says it has engaged with third-party security firms to perform additional security checks.
Also Crypto.com has launched a new Worldwide Account Protection Program. The program promises to restore funds up to $250,000 for qualified users in the event of fraud or theft. To qualify, users must meet a series of criteria, such as having two-factor authentication enabled on all transactions and filing a report with local police.
