---
date: 2023-11-06
target-entities: TrustPad
entity-types: DeFi
attack-types: Smart Contract Exploit
title: "TrustPad Falls Victim to Exploit, Losing $155,000 in BNB"
loss: 155000
---

## Summary

TrustPad, a decentralized fundraising platform, encountered a significant exploit on November 6, 2023, which led to the unauthorized withdrawal of $TPAD tokens valued at approximately $155,000. The vulnerability exploited by the attacker revolved around the platform's staking contracts, particularly the mechanisms for locking periods and reward harvesting.

The exploit began with deploying a malicious contract targeting TrustPad's specific staking pool. The attacker manipulated contract states to bypass the intended lock periods, enabling the repeated harvesting of rewards through a sequence of deposits and withdrawals. This manipulation allowed for the accumulation of $TPAD tokens.

The stolen $TPAD tokens were then converted into 615 BNB, which were laundered through Tornado Cash.

## Attackers

The identity of the attacker is unknown. The following address is associated with this attack:

- [0x1a7b15354e2f6564fcf6960c79542de251ce0dc9](https://bscscan.com/address/0x1a7b15354e2f6564fcf6960c79542de251ce0dc9)

## Losses

TrustPad lost approximately $155,000 in total.

## Timeline

- **November 6, 2023, 04:02:52 PM +UTC:** The [first malicious](https://bscscan.com/tx/0x191a34e6c0780c3d1ab5c9bc04948e231d742b7d88e0e4f85568d57fcdc03182) transaction occurred.
- **November 6, 2023, 05:35 PM +UTC:** TrustPad [reported](https://twitter.com/TrustPad/status/1721582197910430106) about the exploit.
- **November 8, 2023:** TrustPad [published](https://trustpad.medium.com/trustpad-attack-post-mortem-c09ccc01e0ef) exploit Post-Mortem.
- **November 12, 2023:** TrustPad [published](https://trustpad.medium.com/tpad-2-0-launch-details-dc998c76906c) TPAD 2.0 details and compensation information for affected users.

## Security Failure Causes

- **Smart Contract Vulnerability:** The exploit stemmed from the protocol's smart contract vulnerability, specifically the mishandling of external calls that allowed manipulation of the lock period and unauthorized harvesting of rewards.
