---
date: 2023-04-09
custodians: GDAC
categories: Custodian
title: "South Korean crypto exchange Gdac hacked for nearly $14M"
---

## Summary

In early April 2023, a South Korean cryptocurrency exchange and blockchain platform GDAC has fallen victim to a hack, resulting in the theft of approximately $13.9 million worth of various cryptocurrencies which was 23% of the exchange’s total custodial assets. The hacker transferred multiple crypto assets from the exchange’s hot wallet to an unknown wallet address. Following identifying the breach, GDAC immediately paused withdrawals and deposits while disabling its wallet’s servers. After the incident, the cryptocurrency exchange is now collaborating with South Korean Police and security authorities to help the firm regain stolen funds.

## Attackers

The perpetrators remain unidentified.

## Losses

Stolen digital assets include a collection of 60.8 Bitcoin, 350.5 Ethereum, 220,000 USDT, and 10 million WEMIX tokens, the native token of the GDAC exchange. The stolen crypto funds were worth above $14.2 million at the time of the hacking.

## Timeline

- **April 9, 2023, around 10:00 PM UTC:** Hackers gained control of some of the exchange’s hot wallets. The stolen cryptocurrencies include 61 Bitcoin, 350.5 Ether, 10 million of the WEMIX gaming currency, and $220,000 worth of Tether. This amounts to around 23% of GDAC’s total custodial assets at that time, as was stated in the announcement.
- **April 10, 2023:** GDAC CEO Han Seunghwan made the announcement revealing that the attack had occurred. GDAC teams also has taken swift action by reporting the hack to the police, informing the Korea Internet & Security Agency (KISA), and notifying the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) of the loss incurred due to the attack. GDAC also called on asset issuers and DeFi and CeFi exchanges to freeze the assets.

## Security Failure Causes

According to blockchain analytics platform BlockSec, the hacker quickly converted all the USDT he stole into ETH and then laundered the Ether through Tornado Cash, the controversial Ethereum-powered coin mixing service. He reportedly also bridged the stolen WEMIX tokens to Ethereum. Yet another blockchain sleuth [ruled out](https://twitter.com/x_explore_eth/status/1645783307395686400) the leaking of GDAC’s private keys as the genesis of the hack. First, all the stolen BTC was not transferred directly to the attacker’s address: “If the attacker has the private key, he can withdraw all funds to his own address.” Second, over 750,000 WEMIX tokens remain on the GDAC withdrawal wallet address: A leaked private key would have seen the wallet swept clean.
