---
date: 2022-03-23
custodians: Xplosive Ethereum (xETH)
categories: Custodian
title: Hackers Breach Qubit Finance Platform, Stealing $80 Million
---

## Summary

On January 28, 2022, Qubit Finance, a project built on the BNB Chain (formerly known as Binance Smart Chain), announced a breach of its QBridge credit protocol on their Twitter page. The platform was hacked due to a specific vulnerability in the bridge. Hackers were able to mint an unlimited amount of xETH as collateral for loans on the Binance Smart Chain network.
The platform's native token, QBT, plummeted by 31% within two hours and is currently trading at a price below $0.0001, which is 6,000 times lower than its historical high in September 2021 at $0.58.

## Attackers

The perpetrators remain unidentified. 
During the confirmation of the hacking incident, the Qubit Finance team posted the address of the affected smart contract on Twitter: 0xd01ae1a708614948b2b5e0b7ab5be6afa01325c7. 

## Losses

An unlimited amount of xETH was released and used as collateral, and approximately $80 million worth of tokens were withdrawn from the token pool.

## Timeline

- **January 28, 2022 6:19 AM:** PeckShield, a blockchain security and smart contract audit company, confirmed the exploit.
- **January 28, 2022 8:14 AM:** Project representatives confirmed the hacking incident and stated that they are tracking the stolen funds.
- **January 28, 2022 9:30 AM:** The project team has reported that they have contacted the perpetrators and offered a "maximum reward." (250 000$)

## Security Failure Causes

The Qubit hack was made possible by the fact that a legacy function (deposit) remained in the contract after it was replaced by a newer function (depositETH).  Their overlapping functionality and vulnerabilities that allowed fake deposits made this hack possible.
CertiK Security reported that the attacker called the deposit function in the QBridge contract, but did not deposit funds. Ethereum QBridge recorded the deposit event and released $qXETH to the hacker on the BSC blockchain. The hacker repeated the procedure several times, increasing production to nearly $80 million.
> "QBridge treats the deposit event as a #ETH replenishment because the 'deposit' and 'depositETH' methods in the QBridge contract fire the same event."

The existence of legacy code in the contract indicates issues with code review and change management.  Similarly, the vulnerabilities that allowed the fake deposit might have been detected during a smart contract audit.