---
date: 2021-12-04
custodians: BitMart 
categories: Crypto currency attacks
title: "BitMart Cryptocurrency Exchange Falls Victim to $200 Million Hack"
---

## Summary

On December 4, 2021, an announcement was made on BitMart's official website regarding the discovery of a security vulnerability associated with one of the hot wallets for ETH and one for BSC. According to the team's information, hackers managed to withdraw assets amounting to approximately $150 million USD. BitMart, a global cryptocurrency exchange registered in the Cayman Islands in 2017, fell victim to this attack.
However, several hours before BitMart's official statement about the breach, specialists from PeckShield noticed this attack. Initially, the BitMart administration denied the hack, calling the news fake. However, a few hours later, the company's CEO, Sheldon Xia, released a statement on Twitter, confirming that the hackers had gained access to two private keys used to manage the mentioned wallets and authorize transactions. Xia also announced that the project team would compensate all the losses incurred by users as a result of the breach.
Blockchain analysts from PeckShield estimated the total volume of lost assets due to the BitMart hack to be nearly $200 million

## Attackers

The identity of the perpetrators behind the hack remains unknown at this time.
[The PeckShield team released](https://twitter.com/peckshield/status/1467318513971118083) a diagram on Twitter, revealing the method through which the hackers laundered the stolen funds. It was discovered that the hackers utilized the 1inch aggregator to exchange the pilfered tokens for ETH. Subsequently, they transferred the cryptocurrency to an intermediary address before sending the funds to an Ethereum mixer.

## Losses

According to PeckShield, the exchange lost $196,000,000. In total, almost three dozen different digital currencies were stolen, including Binance Coin (BNB), Safemoon, BSC-USD и BNBBPay (BPay) and joke tokens like Baby Doge Inu, Floki Inu and Moonshot.

## Timeline

- **December 4, 2021 12:28 AM GMT:** [The PeckShield project team noticed](https://twitter.com/peckshield/status/1467289808045494276?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1467289808045494276%7Ctwgr%5E73c139391c528ff7a5830394c804591d2db0dd27%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fforklog.com%2Fnews%2Fhakery-vyveli-s-goryachih-koshelkov-bitkoin-birzhi-bitmart-bolee-150-mln) a series of suspicious transactions.
- **December 5, 2021 1:50 AM GMT:** [The PeckShield tweeted a list](https://twitter.com/peckshield/status/1467310381073047552?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1467316799977193476%7Ctwgr%5E73c139391c528ff7a5830394c804591d2db0dd27%7Ctwcon%5Es3_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fforklog.com%2Fnews%2Fhakery-vyveli-s-goryachih-koshelkov-bitkoin-birzhi-bitmart-bolee-150-mln) of affected assets, as well as the amount of expected losses.
- **December 5, 2021 2:13 AM GMT:** [The CEO Sheldon Xia confirmed](https://twitter.com/sheldonbitmart/status/1467316252855226368?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1467316252855226368%7Ctwgr%5E73c139391c528ff7a5830394c804591d2db0dd27%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fforklog.com%2Fnews%2Fhakery-vyveli-s-goryachih-koshelkov-bitkoin-birzhi-bitmart-bolee-150-mln) the hack.
- **December 5, 2021 4:30 AM GMT:** [BitMart's official twitter posted a statement](https://twitter.com/BitMartExchange/status/1467350568481878016?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1467350568481878016%7Ctwgr%5E73c139391c528ff7a5830394c804591d2db0dd27%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fforklog.com%2Fnews%2Fhakery-vyveli-s-goryachih-koshelkov-bitkoin-birzhi-bitmart-bolee-150-mln) that all payouts have been temporarily suspended.
- **December 6, 2021 5:07 AM GMT:** [The CEO wrote on his Twitter account](https://twitter.com/sheldonbitmart/status/1467722815071739909) that BitMart has completed its initial security assessment and identified the affected assets. He also mentioned that the possibility of resuming fund deposits and withdrawals would be restored soon.

## Security Failure Causes

As stated by Sheldon Xia himself:
>"This security breach was primarily a result of a stolen private key, which led to the compromise of two of our hot wallets."
